# NBA Player Anlaysis
As the popularity of the NBA has increased, so has the need to understand the behaviors of players on such platforms. To do this, researchers have collected data from ESPN's NBA section, one of the most popular sports databases which include features such as points per game, assists, rebounds, and more. After examining these unique features, we have tried to view the impact of height and weight of a player when it comes to their performance, predict if the player would get drafted in the upcoming round, determine if the player is offensive and understand specific performance characteristics of a player that helped their gameplay in a particular season. The dataset had been pulled together using NBA stats API and the initial missing values have been manually filled using data from Basketball Reference. We utilized a data collection containing 21 Player related attributes for each of the 12305 records. After that, the project goes on to fit multiple models with different hyperparameters and score their performance. Basketball is an amazing sport which contains a lot of data. The NBA has been using statistics so heavily, that they might surpass that of Major League Baseball (MLB) in using data, which was one of the first US (United States) sports league to use data to find hidden insights and patterns to benefit their team. In this study, we used a data collection of 12305 records of performance of players from 1996 to 2001 to investigate the link between a player's attributes and his performance. As a result of this investigation, we have trained and altered a slew of machine-learning models to forecast their performance.

Note: Every effort has been made to use the pyspark library in Python for all tasks. Although processing the data set entirely in memory (using pandas) is an option, the point is to demonstrate and make use of distributed computing's advantages.  

### Repository files:
- nba_all_seasons.csv: data file used for the study 
- NBA_code.ipynb: python script of the analysis
- NBA Players Analysis Report: A comprehensive report of the study
